Readme.md, before:

# SystemUtility


## Overview

The main aim of this project is to implement system utility, which works something similar to the command line tools, by using the linux system calls with inline assembler (implementing a simple system utility without using standard c libraries).

### myls

The myls is a system utility similar to a command-line tool "ls - n".
The output format of the myls should be "file_permission the_number_of_hardlink user_id group_id last_modified_time file_name", as long as the myls should work just like the "ls -n" command.


### mycp

The mycp is a system utility similar to a command-line tool "cp -r".
The mycp should be able to copy the source file recursively.
This means that if the source file is a directory, mycp should be able to copy all files in the source directory.


### mycat

The mycat is a system utility similar to a command-line tool "cat.
The mycat should concat given files and print out it via stdout stream.
If there is no command line argument, mycat should be able to read the user input and print out it.


## Design & Implementation

### myls

The total number of system calls that were used for implementing the myls is 8: WRITE(1), OPEN(2), STAT(4), MMAP(9), MUNMAP(11), ACCESS(21), GETDENTS(78), and TIME(201).

Basically, I implemented wrapper functions of the linux system calls, and used those wrapper functions to read the file stats and print out the result.

#### Usage of each system calls

1) WRITE:

    To print out the result of the myls

2) OPEN:

    To open the directory to read file stats of the files in it

3) STAT:

    To read the file stat.

4) MMAP:

    To get the virtual memory for the simple memory allocating function.

5) MUNMAP:

    To unmap the mapped virtual memory.

6) ACCESS:

    To check if the file exists.

7) GETDENTS:

    To iterate the files in the target directory.

8) TIME:

    To get the current time.


#### Simple memory allocation

By using the mmap system call, I implemented a simple memory allocating function. The design of this memory allocating function is really simple. The mmap will return a huge virtual memory block. I used this memory block as a virtual heap, and put the custom break on this virtual heap. And when I need to allocate memory dynamically, mysbrk() function will move the custom break to allocate the memory.

The biggest feature of my custom memory allocating function is that there is no "free()" function that frees the dynamically allocated memory. Because, it is clear that to minimize the time of the malloc and free, the malloc function should just allocate the given size of memory from the heap (not checking the free list), and free function should do nothing.

As my memory allocating function does not really handle the freed memory, it is possible to say that it is not a good design of memory allocating function. Moreover, my program only uses the mmap syscall once, which means that if the program allocates all bytes in the virtual heap, the segmentation fault would be occurred.

However, the main aim of this project is make a system utility which works similar to "ls -n" command, not making a memory allocating function with a good design. Moreover, the size of the virtual heap is 4194304 bytes(4 * 1024 * 1024B = 4MB), which is big enough. That is the reason that I implemented this memory allocating function, which is fast but not memory efficient.


#### Linked list for formatting

For the formatting, I need to store the file stats of all files that myls read. So, I used linked list that stores the file stat strings in it. To implement this linked list, I used my custom memory allocating function.

The reason that I needed to implement the linked list is that I need to count the number of digits of file stats of all files. If you use the "ls -n" command on the terminal, you could see that the output of the myls is formatted by additional whitespaces. To do this, I needed to count the number of digits of all files.

Thus, while the getdents iterates the files in the directory, I read the file stat of that file, count the number of digits of the file stats to check the maximum number of digits, and store the file stat stirngs in the current node of the linked list. By doing this, myls does not need to run the getdents loop twice(once for counting the digits and once for print out the file stat with the proper format).


### mycp

As the aim of the mycp is to make a system utility that works something similar to the "cp -r" command, which copies file or directory recursively, I also tried to implement this with recursive way. So, while the getdents syscall iterates the files in the target directory, if there is a sub-directory in the source directory, the wrapper function of the getdents syscall will call itself recursively to copy all files and sub-directories in that sub-directory.

The total number of system calls that were used for implementing the mycp is 17: READ(0), WRITE(1), OPEN(2),
CLOSE(3), STAT(4), MMAP(9), MUNMAP(11), ACCESS(21), EXIT(60), TRUNC(76), FTRUNC(77), GETDENTS(78), MKDIR(83), RMDIR(84), CREAT(85), UNLINK(87), CHMOD(90).

#### Usage of each system call

1) READ:

    To read the source file to copy it.

2) WRITE:

    To write the read data to the destination.

3) OPEN:

    To open the file to read.

4) CLOSE:

    After finish copying, close the opened file.

5) STAT:

    To check the file length and the file permission of the source file.

6) MMAP:

    To get the virtual memory for the simple memory allocating function.

7) MUNMAP:

    To unmap the mapped virtual memory.

8) ACCESS:

    To check if the file with the given name exists.

9) EXIT:

    To exit the process when the error occurred.

10) TRUNC:

    To truncate the copied file when the mycp writes data longer than expected.

11) FTRUNC:

    To re-truncate the copied file when the trunc syscall fails

12) GETDENTS:

    To iterate files in the source directory.

13) MKDIR:

    To make a new directory.

14) RMDIR:

    To remove the directory when the mycp failed to copy the directory.

15) CREAT:

    To create a new file.

16) UNLINK:

    To remove the created file from the file system when the mycp failed to copy the file.

17) CHMOD:

    To change the file permission mode of the copied file.


#### Simple memory allocation

I also used my custom simple memory allocating function that I used in the myls to implement the mycp. The only reason that I used this is because that I need to implement a function, which concatenates strings (a custon strcat function).


### mycat

The design of the mycat is really simple. It just checks the number of command line arguments, then read the user input (or open and read the target file(s)), and print out the read texts via stdout stream.

The total number of system calls that were used for implementing the mycat is 5: READ(0), WRITE(1), OPEN(2), CLOSE(3), and STAT(4).

#### Usage of each syscall

1) READ:
    
    To read the user input or the opened file.

2) WRITE:

    To print out the texts via stdout stream.

3) OPEN:

    To open the file to read.

4) CLOSE:

    To close the opened file.

5) STAT:

    To check if the file with the given name exists.


## Usage

### myls

To compile the myls, type "gcc myls.c -o myls -Wall -Wextra" on the terminal.

The myls requires more than 1 command line argument, which is the directory (or a file) that you want to see the file stats.

    i.e. "./myls ."

### mycp

To compile the mycp, type "gcc myc.c -o mycp -Wall -Wextra" on the terminal.

The mycp requires 2 command line arguments. The first argument should be the name of the source file (or the source directory). The second argument should be the name of the destination directory.

    i.e. "./mycp SOURCE_DIRECTORY DESTINATION_DIRECTORY"

### mycat

To compile the mycat, type "gcc mycat.c -o mycat -Wall -Wextra" on the terminal.

To execute the mycat, you need to type "./mycat [file ...]"

    - If you type "./mycat" on the terminal, mycat will read the user input via stdin stream and print out the read text via stdout stream.

    - If you type "./mycat file_name" (i.e. "./mycat text.txt"), the mycat will read the data in the given name of file, and print out the read data via stdout stream.

    - You could give multiple file names as command line arguments.

Commit message:

finish writing the readme file

Readme.md, after:

# SystemUtility


## Overview

The main aim of this project is to implement system utility, which works something similar to the command line tools, by using the linux system calls with inline assembler (implementing a simple system utility without using standard c libraries).

### myls

The myls is a system utility similar to a command-line tool "ls - n".
The output format of the myls should be "file_permission the_number_of_hardlink user_id group_id last_modified_time file_name", as long as the myls should work just like the "ls -n" command.


### mycp

The mycp is a system utility similar to a command-line tool "cp -r".
The mycp should be able to copy the source file recursively.
This means that if the source file is a directory, mycp should be able to copy all files in the source directory.


### mycat

The mycat is a system utility similar to a command-line tool "cat.
The mycat should concat given files and print out it via stdout stream.
If there is no command line argument, mycat should be able to read the user input and print out it.


## Design & Implementation

### myls

The total number of system calls that were used for implementing the myls is 8: WRITE(1), OPEN(2), STAT(4), MMAP(9), MUNMAP(11), ACCESS(21), GETDENTS(78), and TIME(201).

Basically, I implemented wrapper functions of the linux system calls, and used those wrapper functions to read the file stats and print out the result.

#### Usage of each system calls

1) WRITE:

    To print out the result of the myls

2) OPEN:

    To open the directory to read file stats of the files in it

3) STAT:

    To read the file stat.

4) MMAP:

    To get the virtual memory for the simple memory allocating function.

5) MUNMAP:

    To unmap the mapped virtual memory.

6) ACCESS:

    To check if the file exists.

7) GETDENTS:

    To iterate the files in the target directory.

8) TIME:

    To get the current time.


#### Simple memory allocation

By using the mmap system call, I implemented a simple memory allocating function. The design of this memory allocating function is really simple. The mmap will return a huge virtual memory block. I used this memory block as a virtual heap, and put the custom break on this virtual heap. And when I need to allocate memory dynamically, mysbrk() function will move the custom break to allocate the memory.

The biggest feature of my custom memory allocating function is that there is no "free()" function that frees the dynamically allocated memory. Because, it is clear that to minimize the time of the malloc and free, the malloc function should just allocate the given size of memory from the heap (not checking the free list), and free function should do nothing.

As my memory allocating function does not really handle the freed memory, it is possible to say that it is not a good design of memory allocating function. Moreover, my program only uses the mmap syscall once, which means that if the program allocates all bytes in the virtual heap, the segmentation fault would be occurred.

However, the main aim of this project is make a system utility which works similar to "ls -n" command, not making a memory allocating function with a good design. Moreover, the size of the virtual heap is 4194304 bytes(4 * 1024 * 1024B = 4MB), which is big enough. That is the reason that I implemented this memory allocating function, which is fast but not memory efficient.


#### Linked list for formatting

For the formatting, I need to store the file stats of all files that myls read. So, I used linked list that stores the file stat strings in it. To implement this linked list, I used my custom memory allocating function.

The reason that I needed to implement the linked list is that I need to count the number of digits of file stats of all files. If you use the "ls -n" command on the terminal, you could see that the output of the myls is formatted by additional whitespaces. To do this, I needed to count the number of digits of all files.

Thus, while the getdents iterates the files in the directory, I read the file stat of that file, count the number of digits of the file stats to check the maximum number of digits, and store the file stat stirngs in the current node of the linked list. By doing this, myls does not need to run the getdents loop twice(once for counting the digits and once for print out the file stat with the proper format).


### mycp

As the aim of the mycp is to make a system utility that works something similar to the "cp -r" command, which copies file or directory recursively, I also tried to implement this with recursive way. So, while the getdents syscall iterates the files in the target directory, if there is a sub-directory in the source directory, the wrapper function of the getdents syscall will call itself recursively to copy all files and sub-directories in that sub-directory.

The total number of system calls that were used for implementing the mycp is 17: READ(0), WRITE(1), OPEN(2),
CLOSE(3), STAT(4), MMAP(9), MUNMAP(11), ACCESS(21), EXIT(60), TRUNC(76), FTRUNC(77), GETDENTS(78), MKDIR(83), RMDIR(84), CREAT(85), UNLINK(87), CHMOD(90).

#### Usage of each system call

1) READ:

    To read the source file to copy it.

2) WRITE:

    To write the read data to the destination.

3) OPEN:

    To open the file to read.

4) CLOSE:

    After finish copying, close the opened file.

5) STAT:

    To check the file length and the file permission of the source file.

6) MMAP:

    To get the virtual memory for the simple memory allocating function.

7) MUNMAP:

    To unmap the mapped virtual memory.

8) ACCESS:

    To check if the file with the given name exists.

9) EXIT:

    To exit the process when the error occurred.

10) TRUNC:

    To truncate the copied file when the mycp writes data longer than expected.

11) FTRUNC:

    To re-truncate the copied file when the trunc syscall fails

12) GETDENTS:

    To iterate files in the source directory.

13) MKDIR:

    To make a new directory.

14) RMDIR:

    To remove the directory when the mycp failed to copy the directory.

15) CREAT:

    To create a new file.

16) UNLINK:

    To remove the created file from the file system when the mycp failed to copy the file.

17) CHMOD:

    To change the file permission mode of the copied file.


#### Simple memory allocation

I also used my custom simple memory allocating function that I used in the myls to implement the mycp. The only reason that I used this is because that I need to implement a function, which concatenates strings (a custon strcat function).


#### d_type of linux_dirent

According to the linux man page, the d_type, which is a field of linux_dirent structure, is a byte at the end of the structure that indicates the file type. By using this, mycp checks whether the particular file is a directory or not, while iterating the files and subdirectories in the directory.


### mycat

The design of the mycat is really simple. It just checks the number of command line arguments, then read the user input (or open and read the target file(s)), and print out the read texts via stdout stream.

The total number of system calls that were used for implementing the mycat is 5: READ(0), WRITE(1), OPEN(2), CLOSE(3), and STAT(4).

#### Usage of each syscall

1) READ:
    
    To read the user input or the opened file.

2) WRITE:

    To print out the texts via stdout stream.

3) OPEN:

    To open the file to read.

4) CLOSE:

    To close the opened file.

5) STAT:

    To check if the file with the given name exists.


## Usage

### myls

To compile the myls, type "gcc myls.c -o myls -Wall -Wextra" on the terminal.

The myls requires more than 1 command line argument, which is the directory (or a file) that you want to see the file stats.

    i.e. "./myls ."

### mycp

To compile the mycp, type "gcc myc.c -o mycp -Wall -Wextra" on the terminal.

The mycp requires 2 command line arguments. The first argument should be the name of the source file (or the source directory). The second argument should be the name of the destination directory.

    i.e. "./mycp SOURCE_DIRECTORY DESTINATION_DIRECTORY"

### mycat

To compile the mycat, type "gcc mycat.c -o mycat -Wall -Wextra" on the terminal.

To execute the mycat, you need to type "./mycat [file ...]"

    - If you type "./mycat" on the terminal, mycat will read the user input via stdin stream and print out the read text via stdout stream.

    - If you type "./mycat file_name" (i.e. "./mycat text.txt"), the mycat will read the data in the given name of file, and print out the read data via stdout stream.

    - You could give multiple file names as command line arguments.
